the following content is provided under a Creative Commons license
your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer
high-quality educational resources for free
to make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of them IT
courses
visit MIT OpenCourseWare at 0 CW
that MIT that EDU home in
the
in
the No
the in the last several lectures we talked about
a generalization love the continuous-time
Fourier transform and a very similar
strategy also applies to discrete-time and that's what we want to begin to deal
with in today's lecture
so what we want to talk about is
generalizing the four EA transform
and what this will lead to in discrete-time is a notion referred to as
the sea transport
now just as in continuous-time
in discrete-time the 48 transform
corresponded to a representation
love a sequence as a linear combination
love complex exponentials and
so this was the synthesis equation and of course there is the corresponding
analysis equation
and as you recall and as is
the same for continuous-time the reason
that we pick complex exponentials was
because of the fact that their I can functions of linear time-invariant
systems
in other words if you have a complex exponential
into a linear time-invariant system the output is a complex exponential
and the change in complex amplitude
is which corresponds to the frequency response
in fact is what led to the definition of the 48 transform
in particular it is the Fourier transform
up the impulse response well
that said have notions is more or less identical to
the way we motivated the look lost transform
in the continuous-time case in the 48 transforming the continuous-time case
and just as in continuous-time there
it are a set signals more general
then the complex exponentials which
are also I can functions have linear time-invariant systems
in particular and discrete-time if
we had instead love an exponential
you to the Chi Omega and we had a more general
complex number Z bad
the signals E to the end is also
and I can function up a linear time-invariant system
for any particular Z so
and we can see that by substituting that it to the convolution some
and recognizing again very strongly paralleling the
continuous-time argument head we can
rewrite this factor as Z to the N
the to the minus K and
because it the fact that it's a someone and are some on K
and his term doesn't depend on K we can take that term out
and the conclusion is that if we have
Z to the end as an input that
the output is love the same form times
a factor which depends on C
but of course doesn't depend on k cuz that is
some doubt as we form the summation so in fact
this some Asian corresponds to a complex number
which will do no as agency
where Z will represent a more general complex number
namely see is are
you to the jail maker are being the magnitude of this complex number
and Omega of course being the angle so
for linear time-invariant system a more general
complex exponential sequence up this form
generates an output a complex exponential sequence
have the same form with a change in amplitude
which were representing as a gypsy
recognizing the fact that it's going to be a function of what that complex
number is
and this amplitude factor is given by this some Asian
and it is this some Asian which
is defined as busy transform
all the sequence H event
now let me stress that and I'll continue to stress this is the lecture goes on
that much of what we've said is
directly parallel to what we said in the continuous-time case
and what we simply done is to expand
from complex exponentials with a purely imaginary exponent
complex exponential time functions are sequences
that form into one's that have more general
complex exponential factors
now we have a mapping here
from the impulse response to
the Tampa to or the Aiken value
associated with that input and this mapping
is what is referred to as busy transport
so a gypsy is in fact
busy transform of the impulse response
and if we consider applying this mapping
as we did in continuous-time in a similar argument
applying this mapping to a
sequence whether or not it corresponds to the impulse response to the linear
time-invariant system
that leads then to busy transform
love a general sequence XFN
busy transform being defined by
this relationship and again
rotationally will often represent
a time for action and it's the transform through shorthand notation
just indicating that accepts the
is this the transform love accident
alright so we've kind of motivated the development
in a manner exactly identical to what we had done with the a-plus transform
kinda the idea that if you look at the eigen value associated
in with the linear time-invariant system
that essentially generates a mapping between
the sequence impulse system impulse response
and a function of Z and
that corresponds to busy transform here at corresponded to applause transform
in a continuous-time case that same argument
is also the argument the kinda argument that we use
to lead us into before EA transform
originally an once again what you would expect
is dead busy transform has a very close
an important relationship to the Fourier transform
and indeed that relationship turned down
to be more or less identical to
the relationship between the applause transform
in the 48 transforming continuous-time
well let's look at the relationship
for civil what we recognize is
they if we compare
the for EA transform expression
for a sequence and busy transform
expression for the same sequence
dead they involve essentially the same operations
and in fact Cincy is of the form are
e2 the jail maker if we want
this some to look like this some
then that would mean that we would choosy
equal to either the jail maker said another way
busy transform onesie is a to the J Omega
is going to reduce to before EA transform
so we have relationship like the one
again we had between the law applies transforming the forty a transforming
continuous-time
namely dead for certain set values
of the complex variable the transform busy transform reduces
to the Fourier transform so if we have ecstasy
busy transform and we look at that
for see equal to either the jail maker
and sequel to you to jail maker is
similar to saying that we're looking at that for the magnitude of Z
equal to 1 were specifically choosing are equal to one which is the magnitude
see then this is equal to
the four EA transform love the sequence
so busy transform frazee
equal to either J Omega is the Fourier transform
and so this then corresponds to
X love Omega namely the Fourier transform
well we now have ourselves in a similar situation
again to what we had when we talked about the applause transform
namely a notational
awkwardness or inconvenience which we can resolve by simply
re defining some of our notation
in particular the awkwardness relates to the fact that
whereas we've been writing or 48 transforms this way
as external make a if
we were to express XZ and look at it it's equal to either the jail maker
we end up with the independent variable be2 the jail maker
rather than Omega well in fact
the 48 transform is a functional Omega it's also a function to be the jail
maker
and now we can see is dead given
the fact that we want to generalize the four the the
for EA transformed to dizzy transform it's convenient now
to use as notation for the four th
transform exit Z was equal to you DJ Omega
namely are Fourier transforms will now be written as i've indicated here
so just summarizing that our new notation
is dead the independent variable
on the Fourier transform is now
going to be expressed as EJ Omega rather than
as omega its a
minor notational change but I recognize the fact that
its somewhat confusing initially and takes a few minutes to sit down and just
get it straightened out it's very similar to what we did with the
apostrophe in swarm
but let me draw your attention to the fact that
in the applause transform the independent variable that we ended up
with
in talking about the 48 transform
is different then what we're ending up with here
in particular before we head J Omega
now we have the to the jail make
and the reason for that is simply that
the whereas in continuous time we were talking about functions are the four
you to the st. now we're talking about
sequences the form Z to the end
alright so in we have one relationship between the four EA transform and dizzy
transform namely
the fact that for the magnitude is equal to 1
busy transform reduces to the Fourier transform
now in the applause transform we also had another important relationship an
observation
which was the fact that the
applause transform was
the Fourier transform love x50
modified and how is a modified it was modified
by multiplying by a decaying
growing exponentially depending on what the real part a veces
well we have a very similar situation with dizzy transform
in particular in addition to the fact
that busy transform for a sequel the DJ Omega
reduces to the four EA transform we'll see
that this is a transform for other values as the
is the Fourier transform love
the sequence with an exponential weighting and let's see where that comes
from
here we have the expression general expression for the transform
and recognizing that see is a complex number which were expressing in polar
form
as are you to the jail maker
substituting that in this summation now becomes
exit Van are you to jail make it to the minus an
we can factor out these two turns are to the minus and
and into the minus J Omega and and
combining the art a minus in with excessive and
and the in the minus J Omega en
being treated separately what we end up with
is the summation that I have here
well what this says is that the z transform which is this
at sea equal to re: to jail maker
is in fact the four EA transform
allo what
it's the Fourier transform our love xom.n
multiplied by art to the -10
so that is the expression
that we have here and in continuous-time
we had the applause transform is the Fourier transform
love X 50 you to the minus Sigma T
here we have the Fourier transform effective and art to the -10
now something to just reflect on for a minute
is the bit because it tends to cause
little better problem with the algebra later on if
your attention is drawn to it is that we're talking about multiplying
excessive and
times are to the minus n the question is
for are greater than one
bizarre to -10 increase exponentially as N increases
it is a decrease we're talking about are to the minus and
if the matter if are is greater than one of the magnitude of ours greater than
one for example
if it's equal to 2 are the minus and is a half to the N
and so in fact that decreases exponentially or more generally
the larger re: is the faster are to the -10
DK's with increasing in
okay well let's just look at
some examples love the the transform
and examples that I picked again
are examples directly out of the text and so
the details of the algebra you can
look at more leisurely as you sit with the textbook
let's consider first the ball an exponential sequence x7
equals a to the N times unit step so zero for negative time
and an exponential for positive time
in and the Fourier transform as we've seen in
earlier lectures is won over one minus a
it to the minus jail maker but
this doesn't always converge in particular for convergence of the
Fourier transform
we would require absolute some ability up the original sequence
and that in turn requires that the magnitude have a
be less than 1 so the Fourier transform is this
provided that the magnitude have a is less than one
and what is the Fourier transform if the magnitude a vase not less than 1
well the answer is that in that case it doesn't converge
right now let's look at the Z transform busy transform
is the some from minus infinity plus infinity
Aug a to the N see the -10
times a unit staff the unit step will change the lower limit 20
so some from zero to infinity and this is all the form
eight times
Z to the -1 to the N
so we're summing from zero to infinity eight times even minus 12 the N
that some is one over one minus AZ the -1
but in order for that song to converge
we require that the magnitude have a
time see the -1 be less than 1
now this is busy transform is the Fourier transform
love the sequence a to the N
times are to the -10 and
this statement about busy transforming converging
see transform converging is exactly identical to the statement
that what we're requiring is there the magnet too
%uh a times art to the -1
be less than 1 where
this represents the exponential factor
that we have are that
in effect is applied to the sequence so that
the 48 transform becomes the transform and
so if we put this condition we can interpret this condition
in exactly the same way day we interpret the condition
on convergence of the 48 transform
right so from this six
from what we've worked out here then well we have
is the see transform or
a to the N times you have an is
won over one minus AZ the -1
that works for any bad you have a
provided that we pick the value Z correctly
in particular we have to pick the center values UVC
so that what so that the magnitude obey
time 0 -1 is less than one
or equivalently so that the magnitude of the
is greater than the magnitude a so
Associated with busy transform
of this sequence is this algebraic expression
and this set of values on C for which data algebraic expression is valid
and just as with the apostrophe its form
this range values is referred to as
the region of convergence love busy transform
now again
as we saw with the apostrophe s form it's important
to recognize dead in specifying
or having worked out the
d trance 4ever sequence it's not just the algebraic expression
but also the region of convergence that's required
to uniquely specified
to emphasize that further here is example ten-point to from the text
and if you work that went through what you find is that algebraically
busy transform love this sequence
is 101 minus AZ the -1
identical algebraically to what we had up here
but now with a region of convergence
which is the magnitude of the less than the magnitude have a
in contrast to this example
where the regional convergence was the magnitude of the
greater than the magnitude day
alright so again requires not just the algebraic expression
but also requires specification
the region of convergence and
also as with the applause transform
it's convenient in looking at
the z transform to
represented in the complex plane
in this case the complex plane referred to as the
seaplane whereas in continuous time we talked about the applause transform it
was the S point
Z of course because he is the complex variable interns in which were
representing the sea transport
so we will be representing
the z transform interns of
representations in the complex plane
real part an imaginary part
but I've also identified a circle here
and you could wonder well what's the significance
the circle recall
dead in the discussion that we just came from
when we talked about the relationship between is a transforming the 48
transform
busy transform reduces to the Fourier transform
when the magnitude of Z's equal to 1
the magnitude is equal to 1 in the complex plane is a circle
and that circle in fact is a circle love radius
1 and so its on this contour
in the seaplane that busy transform
reduces to the 48 transform and we'll see some additional significance to that
as we go along just again emphasize the relationship since
and differences with continuous-time with the a-plus transform is the
behavior in the ass playing on the J Omega axis
dead corresponds to
the Fourier transform here its the behavior on the unit circle
with busy transform corresponds to the Fourier transform
now we'll be talking as we did with a plus transform
we'll be talking very often about
transforms which are rational at and rational transfers as we kiss
was we'll see represent systems
which are characterized by linear cut the coefficient difference equations
and so 4
the rational transfer for the rational see transforms
will again find it convenient to use a representation
interns opposes zeros and dizzy play so let's
in look at are example as we worked it out
previously example ten-point 1 and
with this sequence
busy transformers one divided by one minus AZ the -1
and we happen to have written it as a function of Z to the -1
clearly we can rewrite this by multiplying
numerator and denominator by Z and this would equivalent leave NBC divided by
see minus a
and so if we were to represent this
through a poll 0 plot we would have 0 at the arch in corresponding this factor
and a poll at Z equals a
corresponding to the denominator factor and
so the poll 0 pattern for this
is then a poll it's equal to a
and 0 at the origin
now let me just comment quickly about the fact that we wrote
that we've written this as one over one minus AZ the -1
and it seems kinda strange because perhaps we should have multiplied
through by C
%uh let me just indicate dead
as you'll see as you work examples it's very typical for busy transform
to come out as a function %uh Zeta -1
and so very typically you'll get to recognize
dead things will be expressed in terms of factors involving
terms like one minus AZ the -1 rather than
factors are the foreign C-minus a alright well
here is the one example that we heard referred to
and if we consider another example
the other example which was example 10.22
consists love
a an algebraic expression as i indicate here
but its region %uh validity is the magnitude is the less than the magnitude
have a
and that corresponds to the same poll 0
apply but a region of convergence
which is inside this circle
whereas in the previous case
with the poll 0 plot we had a region of convergence
which was for the magnitude at sea greater than the magnitude have a
so these two examples this one and the other one
have exactly the same poll 0 pattern and their distinguished by
their regional convergence now
notice incidently that in this particular case
the region of convergence includes the unit circle provided that
the magnitude have a is less than one and so in fact
that would say dead the sequence
has 48 transform that converges namely with the magnitude see
equal to 1 whereas in this example
the regional convergence does not include the unit circle
and so in fact we cannot look at Exit see for the magnitude is equal to 1
and so this example with the magnitude have a less than 1
does not have a Fourier transform the convergence
well assuming that the bank to give a is less than one
and the Fourier transform converges we can in fact
look at the Fourier transform by
observing what happens as we go around the unit circle
we've seen as for the a-plus transform interns observing what happened as we
move along the jail make axis
and here again we can use
the vectors
as we trace out the unit circle
and in particular what we would be looking at in this case
is the ratio of the zero vector
to the polls actor for example if we were looking at the magnitude busy
transform
the magnitude is a transform with the the ratio the like that this factor
to the like that this specter
and to observe the Fourier transform we would observe
how those vectors change in length
as we move around the unit circle
and as we move around the unit circle what we were trace out
interns the ratio the lights are those vectors is
the for EA transform
okay well let's focus
on that also in the context
love a slightly different the transforming dizzy transform here
as we'll see in later lecture is this the transform associated with the
second-order
difference equation it's a it has a denominator factor which has
which has two poles associated with it
and so here if we assumed
that the forty a transformer The Associated sequence
converge then again we would look
at the behavior this as we moved around the unit circle
and the ratio the links at the appropriate vectors
would describe 4s the frequency response
I'm sorry the Fourier transform so
the Fourier transform magnitude would consist the
the ratio the lengths
above the zero vectors divided by the links to the poll vectors
and one thing that we observe is dead
as we move in frequency Omega in the vicinity
love this poll this poll fact there in fact
reaches a minimum length that would mean
there'd its reciprocal would be maximum
and then as we sweep past the lysate these two vectors would increase the
zero vector is a course
would retain the same way no matter where we were
on the unit circle so in fact if we look at the Fourier transform associated with
this poll 0 pattern
if this was for example the the
for EA the represented the the
see transform or the impulse response
the linear time-invariant system the corresponding frequency response
would be what I plotted out below and so
it would peak and in fact where it would peak
is in the vicinity above the frequency location of the poll
as I indicate up here
so as we sweep past is this poll
then in fact this 48 transform
peaks well
this notion love looking at the frequency response as we move around the
unit circle
is a very important notion and it's important to recognize that is the unit
circle that we're talking about here whereas before
we were talking about the jail major axis
and to emphasize this further
let me just show this example and in fact
the previous example with the
computer display so that we can see the frequency response
as it sweeps out as we go around the unit circle
so here we have the poll 0 pattern
for the second-order example and to generate the Fourier transform
we want to look at the behavior of the polling 0 vectors as we move around the
unit circle
so first let's display the vectors
and here we have them displayed to
the point corresponding to zero frequency
and the magnitude of the Fourier transform
will be as we discussed the magnet to the like that this 0 factors divided by
the magnitude of the like that the poll vectors
shown below will be the for EA transform
and we have the Fourier transform displayed
hear from 0 to 2pi rather than
from mine despite supply as it was displayed in the transparency
because the periodicity the Fourier transform
both those are acquittal
now we're sweeping away from I'll make equal 0
and the lengths on the pole vectors have changed
and that of course generates a change in
the 48 transform and
as we continue the process further
if we increase frequency
as we sweep closer to the location at the pole
the polls actor decreases in length dramatically
and net generates a residence in the 48 transform
very similar to what we saw in continuous-time
now as we continue to sweep
further what will happen is that
that poll factor will begin to increase in like that again
and so in fact the magnitude of the Fourier transform
will decrease and we see that here
as we sweep toward or making equal to pie
now notice in this process that the
like that the zero vector is has stayed the same
because the fact that this 0 the zeros
are at the origin and no matter where we are in the unit circle the like that
those factors is unity
so they don't influence in this example the magnitude but they would of course
influence the face
now we want to continue sweeping from make people to pie
around to 2pi and because the symmetry in the Fourier transform
what we will see in the magnitude is identical to what we would see
if we swept from a geek with the pie back
clockwise who are making equal 0
in particular now as we're increasing frequency
notice that the link love the poll
vector associated with the lower half plane poll is decreasing
and so in fact that corresponds to
to generating a residence as
we sweep past that polo cation as we are here
and then finally that poll factor increases in Lang
as we begin to approach will make people to 2pi
or equivalent Lee as we approach Omega equal to 0
no finally let's also look at
the for EA transform associated with
the first order example that we discussed earlier in the lecture
and so what we wanted look at is the four EA transform as the poll
n0 vectors change once again
the Fourier transform will be displayed on a scale from 0 to 2pi
frequency scale from 0 to 2pi rather than mine despite a pie
and we want to observe the poll n0 vectors as we sweep around the unit
circle
we display first the poll n0 vectors
at Omega equal to 0 and
as the frequency increases
the polls vector increases in length
zero vector since the zeros at the origin
will have constantly no matter where we are on the unit circle although it would
affect the phase which we are not displaying here
and so the principal affect the only affect really in the magnitude
is due to the poll vector as the frequency
continues to increase the poll vector
increases in length monotonically
in fact and so that means that the magnitude
above the 48 transform will decrease monotonically
until we get past Omega equal to pie
here we are now at Omega equal to pie
and when we continue sweeping past
this frequency around to 2pi then
we will see basically the same curve swept out
in reverse sense because the symmetry
again if the 48 transform magnitude sweeping from
hi tu Pai is going to be equivalent
with regard to the magnitude too sweeping from pie
back to zero and so now
the poll vector begins to decrease in length and
correspondingly the magnitude of the Fourier transform
will increase and
that will continue until we get around to make people to 2pi
which is equivalent of course will make people 0
and obviously if we continue to sweep around again we would simply
trace out other periods associated with
the forty a transport
well that hopefully gives you care some feel for
for the notion I love %uh sweeping around the unit circle and of course you
can see that
dead because the circle is periodic
as we go around and around of course what would get is a periodic for EA
transform which is
the way for EA transforms are supposed to be now
the just is
with the Laplace transform the
region of convergence that the transform
as we've seen in this example and
is a very important part the specification
above busy transform and we can
in talking about sequences near transforms either
specify the regional convergence implicitly or we can't specify
explicitly
we can for example say what it is says
let's say the magnitude easy being greater than the magnitude a
or we can recognize that the region of convergence
has certain constraints associated with
certain properties love the time function and
in particular there are
some important properties love the region of convergence
which allow us given
bed we know certain characteristics at the time function
to then identify the region of convergence
by looking at the poll 0 pad for example
we recognize that the region of convergence
does not contain any polls because the fact that at polls
busy transform in fact blows up
and of course can converge at that point furthermore
the region of convergence consists love a ring
in the seaplane centered about the origin
recall there with a plus transform
the regional convergence consisted of strips in
the S plane with the sea transform the region of convergence consist suffering
basically because if the fact that the regional convergence
is dependent on the magnitude of Z whereas
with a plus transform the region of convergence was dependent on the real
party vez
the fact that is the magnitude of the says
in effect dead all values see that have the same magnitude
lie on a circle and so the regional convergence you would expect
to be a concentric ring
in the seaplane furthermore as we've already talked about and exploited
actually convergence %uh the Fourier transform
is equivalent to the statement that the region of convergence
includes the unit circle in the play now
in we can also associate the region of convergence with issues
about whether the sequence is a finite duration
alright cited or left-sided in and
let's let me sir quickly indicate again
what this I love the argument is if
we have a finite duration sequence so that
the sequence is absolutely solvable and therefore has a Fourier transform that
converges
then because of the fact dead it 0 outside some interval
I can multiply it by an exponentially
decaying sequence or by an exponentially growing sequence
and since I'm only doing is over a finite interval
no matter how I choose that exponential will end up
with an absolutely some herbal product so
if accident is a finite duration that in fact the region of convergence
is the entire seaplane possibly
with the exception of the origin or insanity on the other hand
if the sequence is a right-sided sequence
then we have to be careful that we don't
multiply by an exponential that grows too fast
for positive time or equivalent Lee in
we have to might have to choose the exponential so that
it DK sufficiently fast for positive time
as a consequence if that for a right-sided sequence
if we have a value which is in the region of convergence
as long as I multiply by exponentials
that DK faster than that for positive time
then also have
convergence in other words all finite values Z
to which the magnitude it sees greater than this so that the exponentials die
of even faster
will also be in the region of convergence
if we combine that statement with the fact that there are no polls
in the region of convergence then we end up with a statement similar to what we
had with the applause transform
here the statement is dead if the sequences right-sided
then the regional convergence
has to be outside the outermost poll essentially because it has to be outside
someplace and can include any polls
finally if we have
a left-sided sequence
van the if we have a value which is in the region convergence
all values for which the magnitude see is less than that
will also be in the region of convergence or if ecstasy is rational
then the region of convergence must be inside the innermost poll
and finally if we have a two-sided sequence
then this kind of a balance between
the exponential factor that we use and so in that case
then the region of convergence will be ring
in the seaplane and a essentially will extend outward to a poll
an inward to a poll so if we had
an algebraic expression let's say as
in we have here
in then
we can associate with that a region of convergence outside this poll
and that would correspond to a right-sided sequence
or we can associate it with it a region of convergence
which is inside
the innermost poll and that would correspond to a left-sided sequence
and the third and only other possibility
is a region of convergence which
lies between these two poles and
that would then correspond to a two-sided sequence
noticed incidentally because that way right place these polls
that this is the only one for which the regional convergence includes the unit
circle
in other words it's the only one for which the Fourier transform convergence
okay now we move through that fairly quickly and
a I've emphasize the fact that it parallels very closely what we did
with the a-plus transform what I'd like to do
is just conclude with a discussion of
how we get the time function back again
when we have busy transform including its regional convergence
well we can first the ball develop a more less formal expression
and the algebra for this is going through in the text and you went through
something similar
to this with the applause transform in the video course manual so I won't carry
through the details
but basically well we can use to develop a formal expression is the fact
that dizzy transform is the Fourier transform
the sequence exponentially weighted so we can apply the inverse
transformed to that and
that gives is not active and protective an exponentially weighted
and if we track that through then what we'll end up with
is an expression after we've taken care of
few the app's lines and deltas will end up with an expression
that expresses formally
the sequence XFN interns
love busy transform where
this in fact is a cock to her in a goal in the complex plane
and so there's a formal expression just
as there's a formal expression for the apostrophe its form
but in fact the more typical procedure is
to use essentially transform pairs that we know
together with the idea of using a partial fraction expansion
so if we had a sequence if we had a see transformers I indicate here
and if we expanded out
in a partial fraction expansion
then weekend recognize as
we did in a similar style with the lip gloss transform
we can recognize dead each term
together with the identified region of convergence
corresponds to an exponential factor
and so this term together with the fact that we know that the magnitude of C
must be greater than to allows us
to recognize this as similar to
the example ten-point 1 and in particular than
the sequence associated with that is what I indicate here
and for the second term the sequence is
what I indicate here so
what we're simply doing is using the fact that
we've worked out big the example going one direction before
and now we use that together with the partial fraction expansion
to get the individual sequences back again
and then at them together is one other method which I'll just point to
which eg is also elaborated on a little more in the text
but it's kind of the idea I love developing the inverse
Z transformed by recognizing dead
this the transformer formula
in fact is a power series
so if we take exigency
and expanded into power series
then we can pick of the values affect the van
by identifying the individual coefficients
in this expansion
okay and so by simply doing long division for example
we can also get the inverse transform
and that by the way is very useful particularly
if we want to get the inverse see transform
for z transform expression which is not rational
right now we move through this fairly quickly on the other hand I stress
dead it's very similar to what we went through for the applause transform
except
for a very important difference
the principal difference really being that with a plus transform it was the J
Omega axis and the S plane
that we focused attention on when we're thinking about the Fourier transform
here the unit circle in the seaplane plays an important role
well we'll see when we continue this in the next lecture is dead
there are properties are busy transform
just as they were properties of us transform
and those properties allow us
to develop and exploit
busy transform in the context love
systems describable by when your constant coefficient difference
equations
so in the next lecture will focus on
some properties busy transform and then we'll see
how to use those properties to help us
in getting further insight and working with system
describe a wall by difference equations thank you